docs/galactic_center/intro.rst, before:

.. _galactic_center_intro:

Introduction
============

Overview
-------- 

TODO: explain Galactic center and plane region.

TODO: explain stats (diffuse $\Gamma \sim 2.6$, sources $\Gamma \sim 2.7$) 

.. figure:: fermi_counts_maps_in_energy_bands.png
   :scale: 70 %

   Fermi LAT count maps of the Galactic plane (GLON = -180 deg to +180 deg, GLAT = -10 deg to +10 deg),
   smoothed with a Gaussian of 0.5 deg width in the energy bands 0.1 -- 1 -- 10 -- 100 -- 1000 GeV
   (top to bottom).
   Taken from `Deil et al. (2012), IAU Symposium 284, 365D <http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012IAUS..284..365D>`_


Sources
-------

TODO: Explain counts = diffuse Galactic + diffuse iso + sources and excess = counts - model

Our goal in this tutorial is to reproduce this image:

.. image:: fermi_survey_image_panel1.png
   :scale: 70 %

.. figure:: fermi_survey_image_panel2.png
   :scale: 70 %

   Fermi LAT source excess maps (counts / deg^2, smoothed with a Gaussian of 0.27 deg width)
   of the Galactic plane in the energy range 10 GeV to 316 GeV.
   Galactic and isotropic diffuse emission as well as known sources that have been identified as blazars are subtracted.
   Taken from `Acero et al. (Fermi LAT collaboration) (2013), ApJ 773, 77A <http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2013ApJ...773...77A>`_

Commit message:

Add missing image to galactic_center docs

docs/galactic_center/intro.rst, after:

.. _galactic_center_intro:

Introduction
============

Overview
-------- 

TODO: explain Galactic center and plane region.

TODO: explain stats (diffuse :math:`\Gamma \sim 2.6`, sources often harder :math:`\Gamma \sim 2.0`) 

.. figure:: fermi_counts_maps_in_energy_bands.png
   :scale: 70 %

   Fermi LAT count maps of the Galactic plane (GLON = -180 deg to +180 deg, GLAT = -10 deg to +10 deg),
   smoothed with a Gaussian of 0.5 deg width in the energy bands 0.1 -- 1 -- 10 -- 100 -- 1000 GeV
   (top to bottom).
   The Crab (pulsar and nebula) is the bright source below the Galactic plane that can be
   even above 100 GeV.
   Taken from `Deil et al. (2012), IAU Symposium 284, 365D <http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012IAUS..284..365D>`_.


Sources
-------

TODO: Explain counts = diffuse Galactic + diffuse iso + sources and excess = counts - model

Our goal in this tutorial is to reproduce this image:

.. image:: fermi_survey_image_panel1.png
   :scale: 70 %

.. figure:: fermi_survey_image_panel2.png
   :scale: 70 %

   Fermi LAT source excess maps (counts / deg^2, smoothed with a Gaussian of 0.27 deg width)
   of the Galactic plane in the energy range 10 GeV to 316 GeV.
   Galactic and isotropic diffuse emission as well as known sources that have been identified as blazars are subtracted.
   Taken from `Acero et al. (Fermi LAT collaboration) (2013), ApJ 773, 77A <http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2013ApJ...773...77A>`_
